What am I doing?
We're just, we're gonna,
I'm just gonna listen to you
and I'm just gonna go like this and smile.
Hi everyone. I'm sitting
here with the governor.
Let, let's just start over.
Hi, everyone. Happy holidays.
We, you are.
Nope. Do it again. Number three,
The Newsom are having a moment.
2028, woo
Though America's next presidential
election is still more
than two years away,
the betting pools show
California Governor Gavin Newsom
ahead of the Democratic pack.
In a political era of big
singular personalities,
Newsom fits the mold.
Good to see you
Telegenic, tactical
and polarizing capable
of inspiring both passion and contempt.
Gavin Newscum is incompetent,
But there's nothing
singular about this operation.
More often than not, his
teammate, Jennifer Siebel Newsom,
is in the room where it happens.
How do you guys decide when to team up?
She decides
I'm traveling
with California's first
couple to see what they make
of tech's turn to the right.
I just feel like a lot of
people are losing their way,
Taking on the most
powerful man in the world.
You've dressed him like
Marie Antoinette told him
to take dementia meds.
You're wincing a little.
I know, it's, I, I,
I, it's unbecoming.
I should wash my mouth out with soap
And getting a glimpse of
home life with the Newsoms.
Are you competitive with each other?
Totally. I beat him in
free throws the other day.
Thank you very much. I was
asking who puts the hammer down?
I was a little loose, so
what do you think? I said
That Jen basically calls the shots.
I'm all about partnership.
That was definitely
the right answer then.
How have you
handled the
pressure?
I come here, I come here
with my girlfriends.
I come here with my colleagues.
I come here with just the dogs
For the Newsoms partnership
begins at home across the
bridge from San Francisco
in Marin County, known
for its pricey real estate and
spectacular natural beauty.
It's where Jennifer grew up and where she
and the governor have
put down their own roots
raising four children.
I heard your, you're a
state park nerd.
I've, I've been watching your Instagram.
I've seen your walks.
I, yes. Well, I mean,
come around your shine.
I'm always like, all right, let's go.
People love to hate on California.
Look, it's a state of dreamers
and doers and entrepreneurs
and noble laureates, the
center of manufacturing.
We produce a third of
the nation's vegetables.
You know, we've got Silicon
Valley and Hollywood here,
and so I like to think
there's probably some jealousy
Who wouldn't wanna live here?
It's pretty special.
Of course, there are
those who disagree, those
who look past the good weather
and see California as an
intractable tangle of economic
and social problems
and place much of the
blame with Governor Newsom.
Hello. How are you? Good to see you again.
Is this part of the
interview? Are we being happy?
You know, what is this part of it?
It, it's the always on era.
There's always a hot mic around.
Gavin Newsom has been a
fixture of California politics
for more than 20 years
as San Francisco's mayor,
Lieutenant Governor, and now governor.
But increasingly, he's become the face
of political opposition to
President Trump at home.
Donald Trump's government isn't
protecting our communities.
They're traumatizing our communities
And abroad.
He's a T-Rex.
You mate with him or he devours you,
And the president has taken notice.
Look at the job he's
doing in California.
He's destroying one of our great states.
In 2025, the state
of California filed more than
50 federal lawsuits against
the Trump administration
and won a major victory with
the passage of Proposition 50.
A redistricting measure meant
to counter similar Republican
efforts urged by Trump ahead
of the 2026 midterms.
You have a history of taking
up positions that carry a lot
of political risk, same sex marriage,
environmental regulation,
prop 50, trolling Trump.
You're out there experimenting.
Yeah.
What is driving you right now?
Is it ambition or is it outrage?
Well, I, yeah, with
the two driving forces
of life inspiration
and desperation, I mean,
been inspired by a lot
of our politicians and by
our politics in the past.
I, I'm now on the other side
of maybe feeling a little more
desperate about the moment
we're living in the blatant corruption
that is occurring on an
hourly, not just daily basis.
It, it sickens me in my core
as an American, as a father,
as a husband, as a guy who I
grew up in, in the Bay Area,
and to watch some of my old
friends participate in that.
I need to be more
accountable to this moment.
Why should people trust you?
I, well, trust me, I mean,
I've been, I am who I am
and I've been a, I've been
an open book for decades
and people that know
me best have elected me
to many offices.
There was an effort to recall
me in the last three elections
we've won by margins of 20 plus percent.
So, I mean, that issue, I think,
has been substantively addressed
for those that chronicle me
literally and figuratively,
that know me best in this state
and certainly in the Bay Area.
The person who knows Newsom
best of all, is his wife,
Jennifer Siebel Newsom,
who was a vocal ally in the Prop 50 fight.
Voting yes on Prop 50 is saying to Trump
and his cronies that you
cannot cheat in California.
You cannot steal our power
and you cannot silence our people.
Thank you for coming. Come in.
Thank you for having us at your
house. I have four kids too.
Yeah. So I can't, it's fun, huh? It's fun.
And I can imagine the four
kid energy. A lot of energy.
A lot of energy. All right.
You wanna be called first partner
instead of First Lady.
How are you trying to change
the stereotype of what
it means to be a politician's wife?
For me, I really wanted
to put out to Californians
that I wanted to partner with
California moms and families
and women and children, and
that I would be their partner,
and that I also was a
partner to the governor.
I'm the first person that
sees 'em in the morning,
the last person before bed at night.
We share, you know, our
thoughts, our, our passions,
our concerns for California
and for the world.
Some partners
of government leaders
enjoy the opportunity
and the attention that
comes with this position.
Do you enjoy it or has it
taken some getting used to?
I just am a worker bee.
I think my husband and
I are just worker bees.
I actually don't love the
pomp and circumstance at all.
I wanna roll my sleeves
up and get to work.
How did you feel about her wanting
to be first partner instead of First Lady?
I mean, I, I, I'd mixed
feelings candidly. I
thought you liked
it
I liked it because I thought
it was the right thing,
but I knew that people would, you know,
have opinions about it, you know,
because it's, you know,
these traditional roles
and people have strong
opinions about all that.
Jennifer Siebel Newsom
grew up in Ross, California.
One of five kids in a
wealthy conservative family.
You used to be a registered
Republican. I was, yep.
Your parents contributed to Ron DeSantis
Campaign
For Florida Governor,
If I may
correct the record, my mom
and dad were invited to a fundraiser
by a mutual friend in Florida,
which is why they gave
money to Ron DeSantis.
It was, and then,
and they did not like the
way it was manipulated
by the DeSantis camp.
I was raised in a
conservative household, kind
of Reaganesque household.
I didn't know any different
than to kind of revere Reagan.
I grew up in that generation.
Then I think I tried to be the
version of Decline to State,
but went independent instead
and made that mistake just
because I, I wasn't ready
to just jump in just
because he was a Democrat.
But I, I'm a hundred percent
a progressive Democrat.
And in terms of my values,
How does this dynamic
work in your own family?
Like, what's the conversation like at the
Thanksgiving table?
Do you talk about politics?
My mom and dad really respect Gavin.
Gavin is an entrepreneur.
He is a businessman.
He is very forward thinking,
very fair, very balanced.
I can be a little feistier in terms of,
I feel a, a real
responsibility to fight for
and on behalf of women and girls.
Siebel Newsom's childhood
was colored by a tragedy just
before her seventh birthday
when she was involved in a golf
cart accident that
killed her sister Stacey,
who was eight years old in interviews,
she's described feeling responsible.
What was it like growing up
Jennifer Siebel?
I mean, I really woke
up after my sister died,
but I also lived with a lot
of guilt and, and pain.
And the beauty of surviving
that was that there were
so many beautiful moms and older women and
and older sisters who
came in to support me.
I got through it to come
out on the other side
and realized that I survived
and have this
opportunity to be of service
and be about more than myself
and try to make a difference in the world
At school,
Siebel was driven to Excel, recruited
to play on Stanford's
division one soccer team.
She went on to work with women
in indigenous communities in
Africa and Latin America,
and then returned to Stanford for her MBA,
and then she headed to Hollywood.
Betsy Hofstadt? Look at you.
You were typecast as a trophy wife.
Yes, and is it true that
your agent wanted you to take
Stanford off your
resume so you wouldn't
seem smart?
Yes, and to lie about my age,
which I didn't do either.
'cause that's not, you know,
those aren't my values.
And I was proud of my Stanford MBA
and I was proud of my
Stanford undergraduate degree,
and I didn't wanna pretend
to be someone that I wasn't.
How is what you've learned
over the course of your
career informing what you
think the government needs
In the entertainment industry?
I obviously saw a dearth
of women in positions
of power and influence.
I also saw women's voices be silenced
because women weren't
the majority of writers,
directors, and producers.
And similar to the political world,
women may be rising in
terms of our numbers
and representation,
but we don't have the same
women, don't have the same voice
and power in politics.
She poured her efforts
into advocating for change,
becoming a documentary filmmaker,
and exploring social issues around gender
and economic inequality.
And she went on to advocate
for herself making headlines
in a California courtroom.
You testified that Harvey
Weinstein sexually assaulted you.
Yeah. And you were part
of the Me Too movement,
and there was that moment for women where
it felt like progress was being made.
And then there's the
moment that we're in now
where it feels like so
many things women fought
for are slipping away.
Yeah.
How do you make sense of this moment?
Every time we make progress,
there's another backlash,
I would say there.
Technology is the new backlash.
You, we don't have as many
women in power starting,
designing, running these tech companies.
The other part of the problem is
that these tech titans are
profiting off of misinformation
and disinformation that
is dividing our country.
It's like ka ka ka kaching with all
of this misinformation and hate.
It's not who we are as human beings.
It, it is not what we are as Americans.
It alarms me that we've
gotten to this place
and that we've allowed it
To change the balance of power.
The Newsom's have spearheaded a slate
of progressive initiatives,
many centered on the wellbeing
of women and families.
Here at the First Partners
Gender equity summit,
the hot topic is how to regulate big tech.
A group whose leaders the
governor has historically
counted as allies.
Kids deserve a world that
values them over the technology
that currently exploits them.
When decisions are mainly driven by power
and profit instead of care
and responsibility, we
completely lose our way.
And given the current
alignment between tech titans
and the federal administration,
I believe we have lost our way.
We talk about this state,
the future happens here
first, we're America's coming attraction.
And we have a unique
responsibility as it relates
to these tools and technology
because, well, this is the
center of that universe.
The people you're
talking about at the top
of these companies, some of
these are incredibly powerful,
incredibly wealthy,
incredibly influential people.
What do you make of
tech's turn to the right.
It's disheartening and disturbing.
It's very confusing when
you spend too much time
in your bubble of wealth
and perhaps in your
limited perspective, where
you only interact with people
of the same economic ilk
unless they actually are employed by you.
I think that's a really dangerous place.
The Newsom's have spent
years warning about who gets
to shape technology and who gets left out.
Now, in a world of shifting loyalties
and alliances, they're fighting
to keep their own seat at the table.
Some of these people didn't
come out for Prop 50 people
who have been there for you in the past.
How do you win Silicon Valley back?
I think there are actually a lot
of people in Silicon
Valley that love my husband
and respect him because
they know he's creative.
He's an innovator, he's an
entrepreneur, he's a futurist.
They're scared. And so
they're just silent.
Some of these people that
have power and wealth
and relationships with the
current administration, I think
that their, their loyalties swing
Trump's ai czar David Sachs,
who once supported Newsom
and later backed an effort to recall him,
has been pushing back against
California's oversight
of AI companies.
The problem that we see is
that you've got a thousand
different bills going
through state legislatures
right now to regulate AI
For the Newsom's,
this is more than a regulatory fight.
It's a test of the once
close relationships he's had
with Silicon Valley leaders.
I'm on the other side of a lot of this.
Can't take the David Sacks
of the world, can't take
the selling out. And
These are people that you,
I know all these
Guys know well personally.
Yeah. There's a clear shift to the right
among tech leaders in
Silicon Valley tech donors
who once supported Democrats are now
whispering in the president's ear.
Your wife thinks some of
these folks have lost their
way.
She has strong opinions. I,
I give a little more grace.
I think there's more of a
situational relationship
to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
Some with a little more indulgent
that I would like to see
because I think they're selling
out and they don't need to.
Others that sadly, I I, I get
the sort of corporate side
of their decision making, sadly.
So I think the vast majority
will quote unquote come back.
I don't think they've gone
that far. Is is perceived,
How do you plan
to regulate AI when it
means taking on the most
powerful people in your state?
Yeah.
And the president's trying to stop it.
Well, we've been doing it. I mean,
California's been a leader for decades.
And so I'm mindful of a
competitive relationship
to headquartered companies.
And so much of that innovation coming here
and how we regulate it.
At the same time, I'm mindful
of our responsibility,
the world we invented now,
we also have a responsibility
to regulate truth and
trust, promise and peril.
Age gating conversations.
We're having social media.
I mean, California's led in that.
We've done it though in more
prescriptive ways than just
saying, here's the age
and you can't access it.
We talk about how algorithms are used
and how we can protect children
as it relates to those algorithms.
It wasn't long ago that Newsom
and Silicon Valley stood together
a bond stretching all the
way back to his years as
mayor of San Francisco,
Google, apple, Microsoft,
Amazon, Facebook, all
of them wrote a brief
to the Supreme Court.
Yeah. Supporting gay marriage,
you know, beyond talent.
Why do you think these
companies got so involved?
I think it's, it, I think
i, I fundamentally think,
I mean, just in their fiduciary
responsibilities to their shareholder.
It's about not just the tracking
talent, but retaining talent.
And it's about representing
the people they're serving.
Newsom grew up in San Francisco,
raised by a single mother
who worked multiple jobs.
He struggled with severe
dyslexia in school,
but was a standout baseball player,
which opened the door to college.
Newsom also moved in society
circles thanks to his father,
whose connections to the Getty
family helped launch Newsom's
hospitality, empire paving the
way for a career in politics
As governor, he's pushed
progressive legislation on gun
control, abortion rights,
and minimum wage, while
simultaneously working
to protect business interests in Silicon
Valley and Hollywood.
He's also navigated some
controversies in 2007,
after separating from his
first wife, Kimberly Gilfoyle,
who later got engaged to Donald Trump, Jr.
Newsom had an affair with his
own appointment secretary,
the wife of his campaign manager.
And in 2020, he was caught
violating his own COVID lockdown,
attending a party at the French Laundry,
an exclusive Napa
restaurant with the scandals
and recalls behind him.
Newsom has now moved on
to the biggest gamble
of his political career, a
scorched earth approach to Trump.
You have posted videos of
the president as a pig.
It's a very big, fluffy, fun,
a hamburger. Where's the beef?
You dressed him like
Marie Antoinette told him
to take dementia meds.
You're wincing a little. I know, it's, i I
It's unbecoming.
I should wash  my mouth. I was so,
So if this is the future
of American politics
and both sides leave the high road behind,
does this road lead
somewhere better or worse?
Well, I'm not trying to win
an argument while these guys
are consolidating power.
I'm not an idiot. And
they play us for fools.
We gotta be accountable at this moment.
And what I seriously am trying to do,
and I wince at that, is
that's all in reaction to,
it's the mirror that I'm putting
up on Trump and Trumpism.
This is not normal to
dress up as the pope.
This is not normal
to act like a child when
you are a man in the
leader of the free world.
And so we started to
change our social media
and used a little humor
and put that mirror up.
I created a Patriot site. You
can go on the Patriot site.
I noticed, I noticed the
knee pads were sold out.
They're sold out. Just
like again, the law firms
and universities have sold out,
just like the supine Congress is sold out.
These guys are not screwing around.
This is, they're ruthless.
And so we have to push back.
And so our comms has shifted.
I'm starting to understand
nature of attention.
You understand that a
business perspective,
the attention economy and all the like.
But in politics, this guy floods the zone.
He dominates the narrative
illusion rules the narratives,
what matters, not facts.
And so we've got to fight with fire.
Was there a moment you
decided to break the class?
Did you have to talk about it?
Like how did, did you Well,
I, I had did talk to her about it.
'cause I said, just FYI, some
of your friends may be going,
what the hell is this?
Why is your husband's
picture on Mount Rushmore?
I had to explain. This is
literally a mirror image of
what Trump put out a few months ago.
He's so kind and decent,
and at some point that doesn't work
with this situation that
we found ourselves in
with this administration.
So the mirror, the clap back, the humor.
It's giving people hope.
When the governor isn't
throwing flames on social media,
he and his wife seem to be
working more subtle angles,
like pushing back against
a proposed billionaire tax.
I do have one more quick question.
Because of the billionaire tax,
and I know you've said many
times a year against this,
but if it ends up on the
ballot, I mean, I've talked
to people, I talk to these
people who say they're leaving.
It is not something
that is going to pass.
It's not something that we should do.
If people wanna leave on that, isn't it
Unconstitutional?
Well, there's gonna be
questions about that as well,
but the impacts in the
state would be profound.
The fact that people are leaving
on that basis of something
that hasn't collected a signature is
they're gonna regret it in a few weeks.
But if it ends up on the ballot, doesn't
that sccare you. It's
not, gonna defeat it.
Doesn't it scare you? It
could end up on the ballot could
Defeated
At issue
for Governor Newsom is a
fundamental challenge maintaining
strong bonds with both business leaders
and the working class.
But with nearly three
quarters of Democrats
and Democratic leaning
independents in favor
of taxing the wealthy, he
may be forced into a position
with one group that alienates the other.
While the governor worries
about keeping rich entrepreneurs
and their businesses in California,
Siebel Newsom has been sounding
the alarm about a different
demographic slipping away. The
Governor credits you
with identifying an epidemic that nobody
else was talking about at the time.
Right now we're seeing young
men gravitating towards a
certain kind of rhetoric.
How would you describe
what they're going through?
Well, I think culturally
there's been a loneliness
epidemic for many young men.
The Manosphere online has really
just capitalized on filling
that void of loneliness
and a lack of healthy role models.
You know, the newest thing
with young men is that,
that they think that
they have to make money
and that school isn't important.
And they need to disconnect
their heads from their hearts
and repress parts of themselves.
And again, in, in hearing that
message over and over again
and denying parts of themselves
and telling them that
their only value is in
their economic prowess
and success and owning
and controlling women, that is so harmful.
That is so dehumanizing.
And, and then reinforced by the rhetoric
and behavior of the current president
of the United States of America.
It's so confusing.
You've been doing this
podcast interviewing people on
the other side.
Democrats cannot survive in long form
podcasting environments.
Why? It's too unscripted.
It's too masculine, honestly.
And the Democrat parties become
too feminine.
What is it masculine
about? A podcast, honestly,
because I get the whole
manosphere this bro podcast culture
To go into the wilderness
with no rules and duel it out
and see who's better or who's stronger.
No, seriously. I mean,
like what Democrats What?
No, I mean like, we don't
do it. You're right.
For whatever reason, don't do it.
You've talked about how your
son was so excited for you
to meet Charlie Kirk wanted you
to meet Andrew Tate even more.
And the conventional wisdom is
that these figures are attractive
to young men who feel left
behind or left out.
Mm. One wouldn't think
that that's your son.
Yeah. He was dabbling
in all that He did.
And this was YouTube. I
mean, this was, we don't,
he didn't have a device at the time.
It was the school device.
It was his homework device.
And all of a sudden he's just extending a
little more at time on it.
Then all of a sudden there's an ad
for something young men,
you know, get in shape.
And then all of a sudden it's Hustler's
University, Dad, I need 35 bucks.
I'm like, what's Hustler's University?
You know, it's crypto get rich quick
and you know, come on dad.
I need my own account. Like, wow.
And so it sort of monitored
a consciousness for me
that I need to monitor this
and that device around
algorithms, I mean, how
that is impacting kids.
So society becomes how we behave.
So we can get in, that's
a deeper conversation,
but that conversation is
one we're all having in this
country is particularly
with young men and boys.
When did you find out he had this sort
of admiration for Charlie
Kirk or in interest in Charlie Kirk?
And how did that make you feel?
Yeah, so it, it was really
exaggerated by the media
and I was a little upset
about that, to be honest.
But it was a curiosity.
I mean, my son, he loves
my, his grandfather
and he loves who's a conservative
and he loves my husband
and my conservative
father loves my husband.
And he's just trying to
get attention, like, like,
you know, curious.
They're trying on
masculinities at that age.
They're trying things on. And
the right really is co-opted
that they've really manipulated that.
But I was not happy about it
because it's not our values
and it's not who my child is.
But it's also horrible what happened.
It is so sad and, and I feel
so sorry for his family.
I feel so sorry for his community.
Nobody should be shot and killed. Nobody.
The killing of US citizens
by federal agents in Minnesota
has since caused tensions in
America to boil over
Apache helicopters, descending streets,
all across America, mass men
without providing identification.
And we're in court on that.
I was proud to sign the first anti masking
bill in this country.
He's tried to stoke a
civil war in this country.
It is a disgrace.
You've warned about
the end of the republic.
Is it hyperbolic to talk about civil war
or is that a real threat?
I hope not. Look,
divorce is not an option.
And we're gonna have to define the
terms our future.
And, and I, I just don't
believe I, we're not there.
But we've got to preserve this country.
And as we move into the 250th anniversary
of our founding fathers,
I, I think it we're at risk
of becoming unrecognizable.
If we don't push back.
We only have to look
at some of the policies
that the current administration
has championed ripping
families apart, ripping
children away from their mothers
and their grandmothers
ripping healthcare away from
vulnerable communities.
I equate it to a backlash
because we have made progress.
And I think there are so
many good human beings
that see the value in
us standing in our power
and having voices
and using our voices to champion policies
and practices that could make
the world a better place.
I recently heard you say you
support compulsory national
service for young Americans.
Yeah, I do. I do, I do.
As a mom, I, I need
to know more about this.
Is this for boys and girls?
What kind of service? Yeah.
What kind of service would you
like to see your own kids do?
Well, because you go see
your, your, I don't know,
anything that would be more powerful
and potent than sharing
experiences at scale
for a generation that feels
more isolated, more alone,
more disconnected, more anxious.
One, two years of service
can come in many forms
and manifestations, like
across the spectrum,
consider just contributions
in your community.
Volunteering at a senior center,
volunteering for, you know,
mentoring young people, mentoring
young men in particular.
We have a crisis of men and boys
and we've been trying to address that
as aggressively as any other state.
And so I just think we have to hit
that head on shared experiences.
We used to have 'em, you
know, our, our parents
and grandparents, you know,
they had 'em through struggle
and conflict war,
but that national service, united people,
it wasn't about Democrats,
Republicans, earl, urban, rural,
it was about us coming together.
It was about understanding who
we are. Many parts, one body.
And I think this notion of, of,
of service is really important.
This is the final year of
Newsom's term as governor.
And he's pushing against headwinds
that could complicate
any national ambitions.
A projected $18 billion budget shortfall.
California's highly
visible homeless population
and past progressive policies
like extending Medicaid
to undocumented immigrants,
which he's since paused.
That'll have to explain to
the rest of the country.
And then there's affordability.
The average home in
California costs more than two
and a half times what it does in Texas.
And gas prices are more than 70% higher.
It's expensive. It's,
it's very expensive to live
here.
There's a lot of downsides
to living in California,
especially the expenses,
the taxes, the traffic.
You know, we've had a lot of impacts.
I I was impacted by wildfire
and not necessarily forced
into homeless, but displaced.
So your house burned down.
Your house burned down.
Yeah. You know, my husband
and I live in a fifth wheel
and it's not an easy
life. What do you think of Gavin Newsom?
I feel like with the recent changes,
I feel like he's fighting for our country.
I work in higher education,
so I see the support
that we are receiving with higher ed,
with the California Promise Grant,
students are receiving free education
within community colleges. Do
you live here?
I do live here. I'm homeless out here.
Do you have any
words for Governor Newsom?
Oh yeah. How is it All these
mental health people out here
are getting mistreated,
misguided families out here
struggling, homeless,
and you're the governor
and you know it and you're
allowing it to happen.
Well, let's talk about affordability.
I mean, I think the median price
of a family home in this area is like
$1.6 million.
Yeah.
You know, people look
at the cost of living here,
which is incredibly high.
What do you say to those people?
We wanna fix this for
Californians. Right.
To make it more affordable to live here.
And so the fact that he's
diving in and addressing this,
and then hopefully the next
governor will continue the work.
But a lot of the policies
that he's put into place,
we're not gonna see the
results for a few years.
And the next governor will get
to reap the benefits of all of this.
You know, from green schoolyards to all
of our investments in parks
and libraries, our education
system, we're starting
to see the outcomes of, of our
investments in early literacy
and closing some of the gaps
that accrued because of the pandemic.
I live in California, I love California,
but I know we have our issues.
Yeah. People look at California
and see a massive deficit,
a homelessness crisis,
the crushing cost of living
families and businesses leaving.
They say, I don't want that.
What do you say to them?
There's been a, an obsession
with focusing on what's
wrong with California.
I understand that I'm not
naive about cost of living
and housing going back
3, 4, 5 decades, but
nor am I naive about our
approach to addressing it.
Some of the most significant
housing reforms in US history,
not just California history
over the last two years,
last year was next level in terms
of our efforts in that space.
I think they're gonna pay huge dividends.
And I feel like
directionally on the issues
of affordability, when you do $11 insulin,
when you do wage increases for
working folks, which is part
of the affordability equation,
$20 fast food workers,
$25 for healthcare workers.
When you focus on childcare expansions,
of which no other state has
done more in subsidies than we
have, or creating a brand
new grade pre-K for all,
which saves about $18,000 a
year for working families.
All of that is part of
an affordability agenda.
So our agenda is about
delivering solutions to that,
addressing some of these systemic issues,
but also addressing some
of the complete mythology
and myth making that's part
of the California Derangement syndrome.
That seems 24 7 in our politics today.
Whether these measures drive down costs
for California families is a question
that will be answered far into the future.
For now, in the Newsom home,
a high profile life carries its own cost.
How often are you home? Well,
It's a good question.
LA tomorrow again,
but it, I mean every night.
I mean, I'm otherwise, I
mean, just commuting back
and forth, which is not, you know,
I can appreciate people's frustration
around commutes a little bit better.
Didn't Arnold Schwartzenegger
just fly in on his jet every
day?
I didn't have my own G whatever.
Yeah, no, that's, that
doesn't come with this.
No planes, private planes in the family
When the cameras are off
and the phones are down.
What's it like in the Newsom
household with Gavin and Jen?
Well, the phones are rarely down,
so let's establish the
baseline of understanding,
particularly when you got four
kids taking the phone in the
house, even if you took their phones.
And Jen and I are ourselves,
but look, it's a little bit
chaotic sometimes chaortic.
So there's some order to the chaos.
More often than not,
there's no order to it.
But look, every night orders
up a different challenge.
That is fatherhood.
What time do you wake up?
What's your daily routine?
Actually, I wake up
a little before seven.
I, I'm very, I'm in my robe for a while.
I put the kids in the car
in my robe, just like,
love that for you.
It's kind of embarrassing.
I just don't care.
Then I'll like run the dogs up somewhere
and then I hit the rope.
So what's next for the
Newsoms? I was gonna
say politics aside,
but I just don't think that's possible.
I've loved and loved
this chapter of my life,
and I'm probably gonna be
really sad when it's over.
And we've been going, going, going, going.
We've had the pandemic, we had wildfires,
we've had flooding.
Every time we've wanted to go
on a family trip, we haven't
because there's a crisis.
The governorship was so much
on our family, so much good
and so much pressure.
How do your children
handle the pressures of,
of living in the house with
the governor, you know,
and how does that weigh on you?
Kids from political families?
They, they, a lot of 'em struggle
and we think about that a lot.
And what are we, what's our example
and are we being good parents
and are we doing the right thing?
Some days they're happy about it.
Hey dad, you know, so
and so came up to me and
they were really nice.
Other days, I can't
believe you did this to me.
Like actual language. How
can you do this to me?
You know, when is this over? You know?
And they're like, we're
a countdown clock now.
They're like, it's 13 more
months. 12. No, it's 12.
And they're debating. We had
to take one of our kids out
of school and homeschool her.
And I'll never forget, never ever, ever,
ever forget in some respect, forgive
myself sitting there in our living room
where we did an eighth grade graduation
because she didn't experience
her eighth grade graduation
and she wasn't able to do that in front
of her friends and classmates.
That's politics and that's
stuff you don't get back.
And so those are the
sacrifice. Everyone has sack.
Look, I, we've had privileges
beyond imagination.
I'm not naive and deeply
situationally aware, but,
but there is that side
of it and that's on us.
That's on me. And I, you know, I gotta,
I gotta make up for that.
What do you say to your
kids when they ask you if
you're gonna run for president?
I have no idea. I tell
'em, I tell 'em that.
I say it's circumstantial.
You have to have a big enough why
and then who knows? I just don't know.
But you said you'd be lying
If you weren't.
I said I was lying if
I, it wasn't a passing
thought and that's all I said.
And then people ran with
these headline, look,
prop 50 was about 2025.
We don't have 2028 if we
weren't successful in 2025.
Nothing matters more
than a system of checks
and balances, not on
paper, but in practice.
And this notion of co-equal
branches of government
doesn't take much of an historian
to know these are the principles
of our founding fathers,
the best of Roman
Republic, Greek democracy.
And so everything, everything
is about setting the table
to 2026 of the midterms, period.
Full stop. The guy, a guy on
the white horse come save the
day in 2028 is a side show
and not a particularly
productive one at this stage.
Do you see yourself in the White House?
Do you let yourself imagine
What that life would be like?
I am so focused on this
house in California.
I have no thoughts about that.
That's a family decision
for down the line.
If, when really, if you
know, it's flattering.
Like I, I read an article about
him being the front runner
and if of course it's about,
and I'm like, yeah, he's really talented
and that is like really far away
and we have a state to
end strong in a family
to hold and launch.
And I have no idea.
That said, you both have a lot
of momentum. How do you keep that
up for let's say three more years?
I can't speak to him
and what he, I mean we've
talked about things regardless
because that is a very
small percentage chance
of ending up there and I don't know.
I don't know if I want it.
It's been a wild seven years.
We'll see, I have no idea
Who's funnier. I mean,
clearly she is.
No, he is. I just,
sometimes I'm shocked. I'm sure that that
works.
Yes. Okay, ready?